Hey, welcome back.
So what is a product?
Bear with me here, because I know this seems like a silly question but it's actually a topic that you
need to really pay attention to as a product manager.
Obviously, everyone knows what a product is.
It could be anything. It could be a keyboard
that I have here in front of me.
It could be a laptop or the device you're using right now.
My shirt is a product.
The web browser that you have on your computer is a product.
All of these things are products by the classical definition.
So we know from the title "Product Manager" that a product manager is someone that manages a given product
However, it's not always the case that a product manager is in charge of an entire device or piece of software.
In many startups, and especially large companies, product managers are in charge of sections of what we
normal consumers would typically think of as a product.
I'll give you an example here.
When you use Facebook, you're actually using a multitude of different features. At companies like this,
each feature is so vital and complex that it's usually assigned to a group of people called a product
team or a feature team to manage it.
So at Facebook the photos are one product.
It's a feature, it's called a product in product management lingo.
The news feed is a product, the user
profile is a product, messaging and commenting,
those are both products too. Every single one of these products is managed by a product manager and worked
on by them and a team of designers and engineers which, again, are called product teams or feature teams.
Let's go a little bit deeper with that Facebook example.
The news feed at Facebook has multiple product managers working on it,
believe it or not, because it's such a big piece of technology. One product manager leads a team that
works on the ranking algorithm, one product manager leads a team that works on the advertisements, and
there are a bunch of other product managers working on different things that have to do with that news feed.
But there are also cases where product managers are not split up by the features in larger applications
or products like Facebook, or by pieces of software, but rather split up by platform.
For instance, at a company there may be a product manager in charge of everything on the Android app
and another one in charge of everything on iOS,
and another one in charge of the website.
This is just a different model of working.
There are also product managers that work on things like advertising and subscription services, depending
on the business model of the company.
We'll talk more about the different types of product managers
in a little bit.
So now we should be clear that as far as the role of a product manager goes, a product can be anything
from an entire real life product as a consumer sees it, or in some cases split up into smaller sections
for larger companies or more complex products.
Alright, in the next lecture,
we're going to talk about the different types of product managers.
I will see you there!